---
layout: post
title: "Mt Tallac Summit Hike"
date: 2014-10-21 || Lake Tahoe, USA
---

Distance - 15.4km || Elevation Gain - 3400ft (from 6400 - 9800ft) || Time - 6 - 8 hours

Its 6:00 AM (Oct 18) when I start my tracker to map today's hike. Just to add more daylight in case I get lost, I had decided to start early - only to realize in a few minutes that it was way too early. And that the sun wouldn't accompany me for the next 1.5 hours. 

Walking in a freezing pitch-dark pine forest, I consciously take each step flashing my torch-light at the tree trunks to check for bears. Every time I look up the sky hoping the dawn to break, the pointy ends of the pine trees make the forest look more horrifying. After a short walk, I get on a ridgeline. I realize that the huge water body way too below where I am, must be the Fallen Leaf Lake that I had read about. 

Tired of anticipating the sunrise, I curse myself to be walking alone in this crazy forest. A few steps ahead, I start to see the sky lit up and in just a few minutes, the whole forest gets brighter. It takes me some time to realize how a whole paradise got painted right in front of my eyes. 

Lake Tahoe is at the extreme end in a lighter shade of blue, followed by a patch of forest in deep green standing guard to the beautiful Fallen leaf lake in the Cobalt shade - all this with a background of high mountains. And I am standing on a carpet of stones paved on the trail hosted by this forest, which now looks beautifully ornate by the rays of light trying to peep in between the leaves. I am finally glad that I didn't turn back at the fear of the forest.

Mt Tallac has a very rewarding trail - just what a hiker needs when he is out there for 6-8hours. In half a mile from the trail head, you witness the mighty Fallen leaf lake to your left hand side. Though not accessible, it stays on with you for almost the next couple of kilometers. 

At the end of this ridge, the trail turns back into the forest - now the desolation wilderness boundary (needs a permit). Walking up the trail in the forest, Floating Island Lake awaits you. It’s a small lake surrounded by tall pine trees lined close to each other. The crystal clear water acts as a mirror capturing a clean reflection of the trees. It’s a good breakfast point unless if you are so early that you are dying to catch the sun for your numb toes and fingers !

The next point is the Cathedral Lake - 0.3 miles from here. It’s a small lake but beautiful enough to stop the passerby to rest for sometime before he heads on to the tougher stretch ahead. This marks the end of the forest cover you have been hiding under and exposes you to a little harsher face of the trail.

For the next 2 miles, you are hiking up some of the steep stretches of this trail throwing some unparalleled vistas and in the meanwhile putting you at a higher elevation as you go on. After what feels like a long hike, you are at the Mount Tallac Summit. Standing on the pointy rocks on top, gives you the best view of lake Tahoe and the more pretty Fallen Leaf and Gilmore lakes around. A perfect place to click some panoramic shots just that it quickly gets colder and windier than you expect.

Trying to put on the freezing sanitizer on my numb fingers tells me that the winter treks of this season has begun !
