---
layout: post
title: "The beautiful red kite..."
date: 2014-02-10
---

A beautiful red kite emerges between the clouds in the deep blue sky. Saira explains me how celebrated kite flying is in the month of February at her city.

Looks like the stage is set by an artist himself. Surrounded by the himalyan ranges and the backdrop of the Shankaracharya hill, there are colourful boathouses lined up on the glittering Dal lake. 

Ducks swimming across, kids racing with their boats, couples enjoying their Shikhara ride, women buying grocery in the floating market - its a scene for a perfect painting.

Standing on the roof of our boathouse, I am listening to this kid dreaming about how summer would be when the lake would be cleaner and she could go swimmimg.

Today is the last day of my 15 day long prison break. This last piece in Kashmir has bestowed on me a lot of beautiful memories - endless fun with the softest snow in Gulmarg (drive to which was like the "winter is coming" scene from "Game of thrones") and the paradise on earth Pahalgam (picturesque snowfall amidst the pine tree valley filled in snow - like that perfect Christmas scene).

How can we let a fairy tale end well...

All these fancy stories end in the haunting deserted streets of Srinagar, flashing right on my face the other half of Kashmir - Peace and beauty of this pristine valley shredded into pieces. Driving through the high alert streets under curfew, I explain my need to go to the airport to the policemen at the start of each street.

Rightly said by a Kashmiri I met earlier, Bharat mera baap hai aur Pakistan meri maa. Par kyan karein baap sharabi nikla aur maa sauteli !!! (India is my father and Pakistan my mother. Unfortunately, I got a drunkard father and a stepmother.)
