---
layout: post
title: "Vijay	Top - An	unexplored	winter	paradise"
date: 2014-12-28 || Sankri, India
---
A	world	painted	in	black, white	and	blue	!	Waves	 of	mighty	Himalayan	Mountains	surround you.	A lone	rock marks the	summit - the	only	one	that	isn’t	engulfed	by	the	snowfall. Sitting	on	it,	I	see	how	beautifully	the	peak	has	slipped	under	a	thick	sheet	of	pristine	white	blanket	- a	slim	row	of	our footsteps is	 the	only	mark	it	bears.	 It	makes	me	wonder	what	it	holds	under this	- how	it	would	look	in	the	summer	when	this blanket	of	snow	melts	away. That’s	the	beauty	of	a	winter	trek.	It	masks	all	the	tiny	uncertainties	and	only	reveals	the	majestic	beauty	of	the	mountains.	

Recalling	our	pahadi (from	the	mountain)	song -
*Ek	Ganga,	ek	Yamuna	yoon	pahad ma,	 Bhulon	uttarakhand	ma…*
*Har	Ki	Dun,	Kedarkanta	yoon	pahad	ma, Bhulon	uttarakhand	ma…*

Uttarakhand	is	truly	a	dev	bhoomi	(the	land	of	the	gods)	- more	so	for	me	because	it	hosts	 some	 of	 the	mightiest	 ranges	 of	 the	Himalayas	and	 can	easily	 be	 stated	as a	god’s	gift	for	trekkers.	Sankri	is	the	base	for	many	exemplary	treks.	Around	160km	from	 Dehradun,	 it	 is	 nurtured	 by	 Tons	 River.	 In	 most	 of	 your	 treks,	 you	 would	witness	at	least one	of	Tons’	branches	- Rupin	and	Supin or	Tons	herself. 

A	group	of	5	trek	addicts	- Madhuri, Bhaskar,	Samod,	Suhas	and	I	- we	set	out	from Bangalore	with	11	trek	days	in	hand	to	try	some	winter	trails	in	and	around	Sankri,	Uttarakhand. At	the	Har	Ki	Dun Protection	and	Mountaineering	Association	(HPMA),	we	 formed	 our	 team	 with trek	 leader	 Kuldeep	 ji,	 cook Mangali	 ji	 and	 the	 very	energetic guides	Kamalesh	ji,	Ramesh	ji,	Sanju	ji	and	Rahul	ji. In	the	coming	days,	we	had	to	forget	civilization	and	embrace	the	luxury	of	living	in	the	wild	by	carrying	our	supplies	and	 tents	wherever	we	 transit.	After	 finishing	 the	 2 most	 popular	winter	treks	in	8	days	(Har	Ki	Dun	and	Kedarkanta),	it	was time	to	explore	something	new. 

Winter	 being	 pretty	 harsh	 with	 heavy	 snowfall	 in	 and	 around	 Sankri,	 it	 becomes	quite	 impossible	 to	 trek	 most	 of	 the	 passes.	 Contemplating on	 the	 options,	 we	decided	to	try	Vijay	Top.	At	a	height	of	around	3600m,	it	was	guaranteed to	offer	an	unparalleled	 view	in	 summit. More	 to	 the	adventure	was	 the	 fact	 that	 no	 one	 had	tried	this	peak	in	winter	till	date.	This	meant	that	we	had	to	be	prepared	for	some	unknowns.	Less	did	we	know,	that	it	would soon surpass	all	our	skepticism	and	rise to	the	top	in	our	favorites	list.

Considering	the	time	constraint we	had,	we	decided to	start	from	the	last	village	in the	 trail.	 A	 35	 km	 rocky	 drive from	 Sankri, initially	 along	 Rupin	 River	 and	 latter	around	 the	 heart	 of	 a hill offered	many	 spectacular	 vistas.	Rupin	 has crystal clear	turquoise water	- dancing	 on	 the	 rocky	 bed	 and	 rushing	 to	 join	 Supin.	 The	 drive	passes	 through	 the	 camps	 of	 few	 summer	 treks and	 gives	 you	 a	 far	 view	 of	 some	beautiful	peaks. At	the	end	of	the	drive,	awaited	a	 cozy	village,	Bhitri.

Bhitri	is	 an example	 of	 people	 embracing	 the	 crude	nature.	 This	 area	 hosts	many	such	 villages,	 which	 are	 located	 on	 top	 of	 a	 hill	 with	 self-sustained	 facilities.	 Step	cultivation	 on	 the	 hill	 for	 food	 needs,	 a	 weaver in	 many	 cases	 for	 clothing,	 forest	trees	for	timber,	short	wooden	houses,	cattle,	sheep,	a	small	school,	a	couple	of	well	crafted	 temples,	 sometimes	 a	 satellite	 phone	 - and	 the	 community	 is	 complete.	Anything	 more	 like	 a	 hospital	 would	 mean	 a	 steep	 uphill	 and	 downhill	 trek	 to	 a	town	around	2-3	days	away. Amidst	all	this,	the	most	striking	feature	is	the	smile	on	their	faces.	If	you	are	wondering	about	how	they	survive,	they	don’t	fail	to	convince	you	that	they	in	fact	are	the	happiest people	you	would	know.

*Day	1	:	Bhitri	to	Bhadang	(2600m)	 - 10 km*

A	short	walk	up	Bhitri,	we	cross	a campsite,	Sarotal	that in	winter	gets covered	in	snow	completely.	For	the	first	few	kilometers,	we walk	on	the	small	walkway	being	used by	the	villagers.	After	an	ascent,	we	reach	a	point	from	where	our	footsteps	are	the	 only	 human	 mark made	 this	 season.	 Snow	 makes	 hiking	 a	 little	 difficult	especially	 where	 it’s	 not	 thick	 enough	 to	 hold	 us	 and	 not	 thin	 enough	 to	 tell	 us	what’s	beneath.	Nevertheless,	Mangalji	led	us	with	a	natural ease. Even	 though	 we	 witnessed	 many	 broken	 paths,	 the	 most	 dreadful	 one	 was	 the	landslide we	encountered	at	the	end	of	the	day.	While	we	were	planning	to	return,	we	saw Mangal	ji	and Rahul	ji take	up the	challenge happily.	They	had	not	a	single	ray	 of	 doubt - in	 fact	 it	 looked	 like	 they	 really	 enjoyed	 walking	 up	 a	 broken	 tree	connecting	the	two	hillocks !	After	a	beautiful	day	through	the	snow	filled	forest	and	quite	some	adventure,	we	rest	in	our	campsite	- Bhadang. The	interesting	activity of	the	day	was	- “Paani	banao”	(to	make	water)	- a	rather weird	phrase	 for	an Indian
from	the	cities.	But	we	literally	had	to	make	water	(from	snow),	as	there	was	hardly	any	usable	water	body	close	by.	

*Day	2	: Bhadang to	vijay	top (3600m) and	back	- 10 km*

It’s	January	1,	2015	- the	day	the	rest	of	the	world	is	celebrating	the	new	year’s	day.	But	the celebration	is	still	pending	for	us.	Or	just	that	we	had a	better place in	mind to	 write	 “happy	 new	 year”.	 With Mangu	 ji	 and	 Kuldeep	 ji	 leading	 us,	 the	 day	proceeded with	an	uphill	climb	all	 the	way. In	 the	initial	stretch,	it	was	exciting	 to	spot	the	pugmarks of	our	co-habitants	- tiger,	fox,	cheetal,	munal	and	jungle	fowl. 

As	the	day	progressed,	we	witnessed certain	stretches	where	the	 fresh	snow	made us slide	a	step back	with	every	2	steps	we	take.	Walking	constantly	on	close	to	3	ft	snow	got my feet	frozen	inspite	of	the	gaiters.	After	a	point	of	time,	it	felt	like	I	was	walking	on	2	wooden	sticks,	which happens	to	be	my leg	with	zero	sensation	down	the	ankle! Hiking	for	three	hours	and	I	get	restless	not	to	have	got	back	my	feet	even	once.	Every	 turn	revealed	a	new	higher	peak	and	shook my motivation	 to	hike	up.	After	what	felt	like	infinite	turns,	Kuldeep	ji announced that	he	could see	Vijay	top. A	strange	adrenaline	rush pushed my	otherwise	given	up	soul.		

What	a	 sight	it	was	!!	The	Himalayan	 peaks around	 us	 stood guard, beaming with pride.	Of	the	three	hikes	we	did	this	season,	this	undoubtedly	offered	us the	closest	view	 of	 all	 the	 mountains	 around.	 Getting	 the	 title	 of	 the	 first	 group	 to	 ever	 trek	Vijay	 Top	 in	 winter	 was	 the	 best	 gift	 we	 could	 have	 asked	 for	 the	 new	 year. Unfortunately,	spending	more	time	on	the	peak	was	worsening	my	frozen	feet	and	I planned	to	descend	with	our	trek	leader	while	Madhuri	chose	to	explore some	sights	of	Sankri	from	the	peak	in	her	binoculars.	

After	experimenting	with	my	inner	 fear	 for	unknown,	surpassing	 the	give	up	urge,		burning	out	some	real	good	calories	and	witnessing	a	spectacular	view	- we	enjoyed	the	rest	of	 the	evening	relaxing	around	 the	cozy	camp	 fire	and	Mangu	ji’s kitchen	tent.	

*Day	3	: Bhadang	to	Bhitri (2300m)- 10	km*

Last	day	of	our	trek.	After	spending	11	days	in	the	alpines,	it	surely	is very	difficult to	 bid	 good-bye.	 The	 thought	 that	 every	 step	 today	 is	 getting	 us	 away	 from	 the	mountains makes	it	 hard	 to	 take.	Probably	 the	 forest	 couldn’t see	 us	 unhappy	- it	showered	 the	 little	 crystals	 and	 the	 coniferous	 trees held up	 the	 snow	 to	 ornate themselves. Soon,	 the	 whole	 forest	 lit	 up	 like	 Christmas wallpaper. Singing	 songs,	sharing	 stories,	 listening	 to	 Rahul ji’s	 jokes,	 sliding	 down	 the	 fresh	 snow	 - we	returned	back	to	our	basecamp.	 

This	trek	will	be	remembered	for	a	long	time.	Not	just	because	it	has one	of	the	best	views	or	because	the	campsite is	located	in	a	breathtaking	location.	But	more	for	the	group	we	had	formed	at	the	Har	Ki	Dun	Protection	and	Mountaineering	Association	(HPMA). We	 can	 never	 forget	 the	 time	 we	 spent	 on	 these	 freezing	 evening - shoveling	the	ice	to	pitch	in	the	tent,	collecting	logs	 for	the	much	needed	campfire,	sipping	 on	 Mangu	 ji	 special	 chai,	 singing	 pahadi	 songs	 with	 Kuldeep	 ji’s	 and	 the	toughest	of	all	- answering	Rahul	ji’s	infinite	question	bank	on	how	the	world	works.
