---
layout: post
title: "LA as I see"
date: 2016-08-31 
place: Los Angeles, USA
---
As much as there is life to this city in its beaches, clubs, downtown lights and in its Uber drivers who either has a startup or is waiting for a break in Hollywood - there is treasure in its mountain ranges.. The huge green patch you see on the LA map is the Angeles national forest to the north of downtown and to the west is the Santa Monica mountain. No doubt LA has one of the largest and oldest hiking meetups. The next time I am here, I am definitely going for SoCal's [Six peak challenge] (http://bit.ly/2cPfnvq). Here are 8 picks from this summer.

**Firebreak Trail Loop**, Placerita Canyon (San Gabriel Mountains)  
*Trailhead - 19152 Placerita Canyon Rd, Newhall, CA 91321*
*Length - 12 km || Elevation Gain ~ 1650 ft || Difficulty - 6/10*

Adding a good end to the saying - what goes up must come down and stay flat ! A perfect combination of open summit+ridge, forest canopy cover and canyon. This is a combination of three sections - Manzanita Mountain Trail (ascent) which joins the Firebreak trail, Los Pinetos trail (descent) and the canyon trail (flat). Manzanita is in itself made up of patches of steep ascents in its way. The trail isn’t well marked and the map (at the visitor center) needs a lot of improvement. A seasonal creek runs at the last section - thanks to the draught, there were just its dead trail. This region is known to have rattle snakes. Though we didn’t spot one, there were enough lizards leading the way. It features great views of tall mountains once on the open ridge. A little inspiration - it hosts the oak of the golden dream which is known to be the first site of Californian gold rush. Placenta didn’t disappoint me with its beauty and the diversity in the trail.


**Baldwin Hills Scenic Overlook / Culver City stairs**
*Trailhead - 6019 Jefferson Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90016*
*Length - 2 km || Elevation Gain ~ 342 ft || Difficulty - 2/10*

There are two reasons why one should do this. One is it’s easy access to public transits (with a 50c shuttle to metro) and the second is the killer stairs for a good workout. Though there are less than 250 steps, when done in one stretch at that elevation and with repeats, it can definitely replace a good 1 hour on your treadmill. An alternative is a short hike up the Baldwin hills. Again, great to train for trail running. We added a 7.5 mile biking to it (from downtown). 


**Cucamonga Peak**
*Trailhead - Ice House Canyon Rd, Mt Baldy, CA 91759*
*Length - 20km || Elevation Gain ~ 4400 ft || Difficulty - 7.5/10*

Mt Baldy offers many options to an avid hiker. This is one of the SoCal’s six peak challenge that helps you train for Mt Whitney. A perfect summit hike with a constant ascent up for 10km - a good endurance test. Starts in a forest for a couple of miles with remains of old houses here and there and opens up very quickly to the mesmerizing view of the mountains. At the saddle point (~6km from start) is the fork to 3 different trails. Around 4km form here is the cucamonga peak. The famous lone stone at the peak could give the “end of world” appearance for your picture at the edge. If the visibility is good, this is supposed to have some breathtaking views at the top - most enjoyed by the campers watching the sunset with a cup of coffee or beer. Camping on top is permitted. You need a wilderness pass to park your car.

**Santa Monica to Venice Trail**, Pacific Coast
*Length - 5km || Mostly Flat*

This is a strange one to be on this list. But amidst all the urban chaos is the beauty of pacific ocean and the row of tall palm trees. A dedicated bike trail in the beach adds to the comfort. The beautiful sunset behind the mountains with the prominent giant wheel on the side gives the well known picture perfect moment. If you wait a little longer, you can watch the giant wheel lit up in beautiful colors - its beauty magnifying as it gets darker. There are of course the other pretty aspects to this place like the Venice canals, Ballona lagoon, the artisty Venice boardwalk, the carnival at Pacific Park, a little shop dedicated to Santa Monica as the last place in the renowned route 66, etc. Adding to the convenience is the single metro ride from downtown LA to Santa Monica to get your bike. 

**Bridge to Nowhere**, Mt Baldy
*Trailhead - East fork ranger station, Bridge to Nowhere, CA 91759*
*Length - 16.5 km || Elevation Gain ~ 800 ft || Difficulty - 5/10*

This hike takes you to a 120ft concrete bridge in a canyon, cut out of the connecting roads many years ago - hence the name ! The drive to the trailhead boasts mighty mountains. Most of the hike is close to the San Gabriel river making it the best summer hike. You can resort to hiking in the creek when the heat gets unbearable. There are several stream crossings, so be prepared to get your boots soaked up. May not be safe in the winter when the river is full - looks like the bridge got cut out due to the flash floods in the area ! The trail gets its share of cover now and then but a significant portion is open. Also, sighted some campers setting traps at an attempt to collect gold. Expect a decent crowd at the bridge waiting to bungee jump. The last stretch needs caution with narrow paths on the boulders. The end of the trail hosts many swimming holes and jacuzzis - worth a dip before you start back. 

**Solistice Canyon** (Santa Monica mountains)
*Trailhead - 3455 Solstice Canyon Road, Malibu, CA 90265*
*Length - 5km || Elevation Gain ~ 700 ft || Difficulty - 3/10*

A pleasant family hike with a good mix of tales from the past, soothing ocean view, comfortable canyon shade and ascent for decent cardio. There are many options to mix and match the different short trails as per your convenience. If you want to end the hike facing the beautiful view of the deep blue pacific ocean, you could start with the Solstice canyon trail through the remains of the old stone house of Keller and Roberts Ranch House. A small waterfall waits at the middle of this loop. The trail continues on to the Rising Sun trail which opens up from the shade of the canyon to a short ascent up a hill and goes back down to the start. And if you have more time in the area, lunch at Malibu pier and a lazy afternoon at El Matador beach would make it to a perfect weekend.  


**Ballona Creek Bike Ride**
*Start - Ballona Creek Bike Path, Los Angeles, CA 90230*
*Length - 18km (starting from USC ICT) || Elevation Gain ~ 200 ft || Difficulty - 3/10*

Ballona creek bike path is close to 8 miles of nice and breezy ride and you would cover most of this when biking from Marina Del Rey to downtown LA. You could also enter and exit the path through multiple entries all the way. There is a dedicated bike path right next to the creek and is cut off from the rest of the traffic. You would be joined by fellow bikers and joggers. You cross Baldwin hills on the way and is worth combining both for a nicer workout. The second half of this path is next to the expo line and could get crazy yet times with the traffic. In summer the creek is not quite full but it does have the history of submerging the bike path at its best.
PC - WalkNRollers 

**Gabrielino Trail**, Arroyo Seco (Hahamongna watershed park)  
*Trailhead - 2886 N Windsor Ave, Altadena, CA 91001*
*Length - 13 km || Elevation Gain ~ 650 ft || Difficulty - 3.5/10*

Hike to the Devil’s gate dam and back to the parking lot (JPL area). The trail is mostly flat through a vast canyon and moderately dense forest. Listening to a creek with some water run next to you in a Californian city was the best thing. Caught the sight of mountain peaks hiding behind the fog. The trail isn’t well marked and its a good idea to get a print of the map early on. There are sections which needs crossing a flowing stream and could be slippery yet times. Being a summer day, it was just a few inches. If its a weekend, you do witness a bunch of happy families and their dogs in the couple of camp grounds on the way. Watch out for bikers. I believe the same trail extends to a 20 miler if you need a longer one. 
